docs/academic/PERIOD8_PROPERTIES.md, before:

# Period 8 Element Properties (Z=119-168)

## S-BLOCK (Z=119-120): Alkali & Alkaline Earth

| Z | Symbol | Name | Mass | Radius | IE | EN | Ox | Config | Half-life |
|---|--------|------|------|--------|----|----|----|----|-----------|
| 119 | Uue | Ununennium | 310u | 97pm | 3.8eV | 0.69 | +1 | [Og]8s¹ | ms |
| 120 | Ubn | Unbinilium | 313u | 92pm | 3.7eV | 0.81 | +2 | [Og]8s² | ms |

**Properties:**
- Most electropositive elements
- Extremely reactive with water/air
- Relativistic 8s contraction (~50%) reduces reactivity vs Fr/Ra
- Ubn near magic N=184 isotope

---

## G-BLOCK (Z=121-138): Superactinides - NEW TYPE!

**First elements with 5g electrons (l=4, 9 orbitals, 18 electrons max)**

| Z | Symbol | Mass | Ox States | Config | Notes |
|---|--------|------|-----------|--------|-------|
| 121 | Ubu | 315u | +3 | [Og]8s²5g¹ | **FIRST 5g ELECTRON** |
| 122 | Ubb | 318u | +3,+4 | [Og]8s²5g² | Superactinide |
| 123 | Ubt | 321u | +3,+4,+5 | [Og]8s²5g³ | Superactinide |
| 124 | Ubq | 323u | +4,+5,+6 | [Og]8s²5g⁴ | Superactinide |
| 125 | Ubp | 326u | +5,+6,+7 | [Og]8s²5g⁵ | Near magic Z |
| **126** | **Ubh** | **328u** | **+6** | [Og]8s²5g⁶ | **MAGIC Z=126, ISLAND CENTER** |
| 127 | Ubs | 331u | +6,+7 | [Og]8s²5g⁷ | Post-magic |
| 128 | Ubo | 334u | +6,+8 | [Og]8s²5g⁸ | Superactinide |
| 129 | Ube | 336u | +6,+8,+9 | [Og]8s²5g⁹ | Half-filled 5g |
| 130 | Utn | 339u | +6,+8,+10 | [Og]8s²5g¹⁰ | Superactinide |
| 131 | Utu | 342u | +6,+8 | [Og]8s²5g¹¹ | Superactinide |
| 132 | Utb | 344u | +6,+8 | [Og]8s²5g¹² | Superactinide |
| 133 | Utt | 347u | +6 | [Og]8s²5g¹³ | Superactinide |
| 134 | Utq | 349u | +4,+6 | [Og]8s²5g¹⁴ | Superactinide |
| 135 | Utp | 352u | +3,+4 | [Og]8s²5g¹⁵ | Superactinide |
| 136 | Uth | 355u | +3 | [Og]8s²5g¹⁶ | Superactinide |
| 137 | Uts | 357u | +3 | [Og]8s²5g¹⁷ | **FEYNMANIUM LIMIT** |
| 138 | Uto | 360u | +2,+3 | [Og]8s²5g¹⁸ | End of 5g |

**G-block properties:**
- Complex angular distribution (l=4)
- High oxidation states (+6 to +10)
- Relativistic contraction 53-99%
- Half-life: microseconds to nanoseconds
- Z=126 has enhanced stability (hours with N=184)

---

## F-BLOCK (Z=139-152): 6f Superactinides

| Z | Symbol | Mass | Ox States | Config | Notes |
|---|--------|------|-----------|--------|-------|
| 139 | Ute | 363u | +3,+4 | [Og]8s²5g¹⁸6f¹ | First 6f |
| 140 | Uqn | 366u | +3,+4,+5 | 6f² | Superactinide |
| 141 | Uqu | 369u | +3,+4,+5,+6 | 6f³ | Superactinide |
| 142 | Uqb | 372u | +4,+5,+6,+7 | 6f⁴ | Superactinide |
| 143 | Uqt | 375u | +5,+6,+7 | 6f⁵ | Superactinide |
| 144 | Uqq | 378u | +6,+7 | 6f⁶ | Superactinide |
| 145 | Uqp | 381u | +6,+7 | 6f⁷ | Half-filled 6f |
| 146 | Uqh | 384u | +4,+5,+6 | 6f⁸ | Superactinide |
| 147 | Uqs | 387u | +3,+4,+5 | 6f⁹ | Superactinide |
| 148 | Uqo | 390u | +3,+4 | 6f¹⁰ | Superactinide |
| 149 | Uqe | 393u | +3,+4 | 6f¹¹ | Superactinide |
| 150 | Upn | 396u | +3 | 6f¹² | Superactinide |
| 151 | Upu | 399u | +3 | 6f¹³ | Superactinide |
| 152 | Upb | 402u | +2,+3 | 6f¹⁴ | End of 6f |

**F-block properties:**
- Similar to actinides but more relativistic
- Radioactive metals
- Half-life: nanoseconds

---

## D-BLOCK (Z=153-162): 7d Transition Metals

| Z | Symbol | Mass | Group | Ox States | Analogous to |
|---|--------|------|-------|-----------|--------------|
| 153 | Upt | 405u | 3 | +3 | Lr |
| 154 | Upq | 408u | 4 | +4 | Rf |
| 155 | Upp | 411u | 5 | +5 | Db |
| 156 | Uph | 414u | 6 | +6 | Sg |
| 157 | Ups | 417u | 7 | +7 | Bh |
| 158 | Upo | 420u | 8 | +4,+6,+8 | Hs |
| 159 | Upe | 423u | 9 | +3,+4,+6 | Mt |
| 160 | Uhn | 426u | 10 | +2,+4,+6 | Ds |
| 161 | Uhu | 429u | 11 | +1,+3 | Rg |
| 162 | Uhb | 432u | 12 | +2 | Cn |

**D-block properties:**
- Heaviest transition metals
- Noble metal behavior (Z=158-162)
- Half-life: nanoseconds

---

## P-BLOCK (Z=163-168): 8p Main Group

| Z | Symbol | Mass | Group | Ox States | Analogous to | Notes |
|---|--------|------|-------|-----------|--------------|-------|
| 163 | Uht | 435u | 13 | +1,+3 | Nh (Tl) | Post-transition |
| 164 | Uhq | 438u | 14 | +2,+4 | Fl (Pb) | **Doubly magic?** |
| 165 | Uhp | 441u | 15 | +3,+5 | Mc (Bi) | Pnictogen |
| 166 | Uhh | 444u | 16 | -2,+4,+6 | Lv (Po) | Chalcogen |
| 167 | Uhs | 447u | 17 | -1,+1,+5 | Ts (At) | Halogen |
| 168 | Uho | 450u | 18 | 0 | Og | **Noble gas, End of Period 8** |

**P-block properties:**
- Main group elements
- Z=164 may have enhanced stability (doubly magic candidate)
- Z=168 is noble gas ending Period 8
- Half-life: nanoseconds

---

## Summary

| Block | Elements | Z Range | New Orbital | Key Feature |
|-------|----------|---------|-------------|-------------|
| s | 2 | 119-120 | 8s | Most electropositive |
| g | 18 | 121-138 | **5g** | **NEW ORBITAL TYPE** |
| f | 14 | 139-152 | 6f | Superactinides |
| d | 10 | 153-162 | 7d | Transition metals |
| p | 6 | 163-168 | 8p | Noble gas at end |

**Total Period 8: 50 elements**

Commit message:

Translate all documentation to English
- BENEFITS_FOR_HUMANITY.md: full English translation
- PERIOD8_PROPERTIES.md: full English translation
- Periodic table visualization: English UI and benefits section

All academic documents now in English for international accessibility.

Co-authored-by: Ona <no-reply@ona.com>

docs/academic/PERIOD8_PROPERTIES.md, after:

# Period 8 Element Properties (Z=119-168)

## S-BLOCK (Z=119-120): Alkali & Alkaline Earth Metals

| Z | Symbol | Name | Mass | Radius | IE | EN | Ox | Config | Half-life |
|---|--------|------|------|--------|----|----|----|----|-----------|
| 119 | Uue | Ununennium | 310u | 97pm | 3.8eV | 0.69 | +1 | [Og]8s¹ | ms |
| 120 | Ubn | Unbinilium | 313u | 92pm | 3.7eV | 0.81 | +2 | [Og]8s² | ms |

**Properties:**
- Most electropositive elements
- Extremely reactive with water/air
- Relativistic 8s contraction (~50%) reduces reactivity vs Fr/Ra
- Ubn near magic N=184 isotope

---

## G-BLOCK (Z=121-138): Superactinides - NEW TYPE!

**First elements with 5g electrons (l=4, 9 orbitals, 18 electrons max)**

| Z | Symbol | Mass | Ox States | Config | Notes |
|---|--------|------|-----------|--------|-------|
| 121 | Ubu | 315u | +3 | [Og]8s²5g¹ | **FIRST 5g ELECTRON** |
| 122 | Ubb | 318u | +3,+4 | [Og]8s²5g² | Superactinide |
| 123 | Ubt | 321u | +3,+4,+5 | [Og]8s²5g³ | Superactinide |
| 124 | Ubq | 323u | +4,+5,+6 | [Og]8s²5g⁴ | Superactinide |
| 125 | Ubp | 326u | +5,+6,+7 | [Og]8s²5g⁵ | Near magic Z |
| **126** | **Ubh** | **328u** | **+6** | [Og]8s²5g⁶ | **MAGIC Z=126, ISLAND CENTER** |
| 127 | Ubs | 331u | +6,+7 | [Og]8s²5g⁷ | Post-magic |
| 128 | Ubo | 334u | +6,+8 | [Og]8s²5g⁸ | Superactinide |
| 129 | Ube | 336u | +6,+8,+9 | [Og]8s²5g⁹ | Half-filled 5g |
| 130 | Utn | 339u | +6,+8,+10 | [Og]8s²5g¹⁰ | Superactinide |
| 131 | Utu | 342u | +6,+8 | [Og]8s²5g¹¹ | Superactinide |
| 132 | Utb | 344u | +6,+8 | [Og]8s²5g¹² | Superactinide |
| 133 | Utt | 347u | +6 | [Og]8s²5g¹³ | Superactinide |
| 134 | Utq | 349u | +4,+6 | [Og]8s²5g¹⁴ | Superactinide |
| 135 | Utp | 352u | +3,+4 | [Og]8s²5g¹⁵ | Superactinide |
| 136 | Uth | 355u | +3 | [Og]8s²5g¹⁶ | Superactinide |
| **137** | **Uts** | **357u** | **+3** | [Og]8s²5g¹⁷ | **FEYNMANIUM LIMIT** |
| 138 | Uto | 360u | +2,+3 | [Og]8s²5g¹⁸ | End of 5g |

**G-block properties:**
- Complex angular distribution (l=4)
- High oxidation states (+6 to +10)
- Relativistic contraction 53-99%
- Half-life: microseconds to nanoseconds
- Z=126 has enhanced stability (hours with N=184)

---

## F-BLOCK (Z=139-152): 6f Superactinides

| Z | Symbol | Mass | Ox States | Config | Notes |
|---|--------|------|-----------|--------|-------|
| 139 | Ute | 363u | +3,+4 | [Og]8s²5g¹⁸6f¹ | First 6f |
| 140 | Uqn | 366u | +3,+4,+5 | 6f² | Superactinide |
| 141 | Uqu | 369u | +3,+4,+5,+6 | 6f³ | Superactinide |
| 142 | Uqb | 372u | +4,+5,+6,+7 | 6f⁴ | Superactinide |
| 143 | Uqt | 375u | +5,+6,+7 | 6f⁵ | Superactinide |
| 144 | Uqq | 378u | +6,+7 | 6f⁶ | Superactinide |
| 145 | Uqp | 381u | +6,+7 | 6f⁷ | Half-filled 6f |
| 146 | Uqh | 384u | +4,+5,+6 | 6f⁸ | Superactinide |
| 147 | Uqs | 387u | +3,+4,+5 | 6f⁹ | Superactinide |
| 148 | Uqo | 390u | +3,+4 | 6f¹⁰ | Superactinide |
| 149 | Uqe | 393u | +3,+4 | 6f¹¹ | Superactinide |
| 150 | Upn | 396u | +3 | 6f¹² | Superactinide |
| 151 | Upu | 399u | +3 | 6f¹³ | Superactinide |
| 152 | Upb | 402u | +2,+3 | 6f¹⁴ | End of 6f |

**F-block properties:**
- Similar to actinides but more relativistic
- Radioactive metals
- Half-life: nanoseconds

---

## D-BLOCK (Z=153-162): 7d Transition Metals

| Z | Symbol | Mass | Group | Ox States | Analogous to |
|---|--------|------|-------|-----------|--------------|
| 153 | Upt | 405u | 3 | +3 | Lr |
| 154 | Upq | 408u | 4 | +4 | Rf |
| 155 | Upp | 411u | 5 | +5 | Db |
| 156 | Uph | 414u | 6 | +6 | Sg |
| 157 | Ups | 417u | 7 | +7 | Bh |
| 158 | Upo | 420u | 8 | +4,+6,+8 | Hs |
| 159 | Upe | 423u | 9 | +3,+4,+6 | Mt |
| 160 | Uhn | 426u | 10 | +2,+4,+6 | Ds |
| 161 | Uhu | 429u | 11 | +1,+3 | Rg |
| 162 | Uhb | 432u | 12 | +2 | Cn |

**D-block properties:**
- Heaviest transition metals
- Noble metal behavior (Z=158-162)
- Half-life: nanoseconds

---

## P-BLOCK (Z=163-168): 8p Main Group

| Z | Symbol | Mass | Group | Ox States | Analogous to | Notes |
|---|--------|------|-------|-----------|--------------|-------|
| 163 | Uht | 435u | 13 | +1,+3 | Nh (Tl) | Post-transition |
| 164 | Uhq | 438u | 14 | +2,+4 | Fl (Pb) | **Doubly magic?** |
| 165 | Uhp | 441u | 15 | +3,+5 | Mc (Bi) | Pnictogen |
| 166 | Uhh | 444u | 16 | -2,+4,+6 | Lv (Po) | Chalcogen |
| 167 | Uhs | 447u | 17 | -1,+1,+5 | Ts (At) | Halogen |
| 168 | Uho | 450u | 18 | 0 | Og | **Noble gas, End of Period 8** |

**P-block properties:**
- Main group elements
- Z=164 may have enhanced stability (doubly magic candidate)
- Z=168 is noble gas ending Period 8
- Half-life: nanoseconds

---

## Summary

| Block | Elements | Z Range | New Orbital | Key Feature |
|-------|----------|---------|-------------|-------------|
| s | 2 | 119-120 | 8s | Most electropositive |
| g | 18 | 121-138 | **5g** | **NEW ORBITAL TYPE** |
| f | 14 | 139-152 | 6f | Superactinides |
| d | 10 | 153-162 | 7d | Transition metals |
| p | 6 | 163-168 | 8p | Noble gas at end |

**Total Period 8: 50 elements**

---

## Period 9 (Theoretical Limit)

| Z | Symbol | Block | Notes |
|---|--------|-------|-------|
| 169 | Uhe | s | First Period 9 |
| 170 | Usn | s | Alkaline earth |
| 171 | Usu | g | Period 9 g-block |
| 172 | Usb | g | **DIRAC LIMIT - END OF PERIODIC TABLE** |

At Z=172, the 1s orbital "dives" into the nucleus according to the Dirac equation, representing the theoretical end of the periodic table.
